In this video, we're going to set up something called Theme Kit in
order to develop and edit our code on our own computer.
If you've done any web development in the past,
you understand that editing from
a online web browser like an interface like we have here,
is not going to be best practice.
We can of course,
if we wanted to make any changes to our theme,
go in here then we have access to
every theme file within our theme and we can change things.
But it's a lot cleaner and a lot better workflow usually to develop locally.
That's why we will be using Theme Kit.
To warn you upfront,
Theme Kit does require a bit of configuration.
I know configuration is my least favorite part of web development.
I'm sure you guys aren't fond of it either.
But just so you know, this is one lesson here of setting up
Theme Kit and then we'll be straight into developing and changing our online store.
To learn about Theme Kit and what it is,
I'm just going to type in Shopify Theme Kit into Google.
The first result if you've worded your query correctly,
is this one right here.This will tell us in one word what Theme Kit does.
It's a command line tool for Shopify themes.
We just download the application and with a tiny bit of
setup you're off to the theme creation races.
Just to give some context and explain why we need a tool like Theme Kit and what it does.
Essentially, we are using a third party proprietary system with Shopify.
When you're developing other apps and websites,
you might spin up your own server on your own computer.
Then you have your code running on
that server and you can edit it directly from within your computer.
The place where your code is being served,
and the place where you're editing your code is the same.
With Shopify you can't exactly do that because you
can't run a Shopify store on your own computer,
and therefore, you can't run a Shopify theme on your own computer.
How it works is we're going to be interacting
with the code I just showed you in our Shopify theme.
In order to see all of our changes that we're making to the code,
we have to actually run the theme on
Skillshare servers and go in and view it like we have done beforehand.
With that in mind,
before you start playing around with your theme and making edits to your code,
which could break your website,
you will want to do that in a different theme from what you're currently running.
If you're familiar with staging and web development,
this is essentially how you can stage your changes with theme development.
What I'm going to do is instead of editing
this theme which is currently live on the website,
I know this is just for practice and we're using
it just for practice and nobody's going to see this site.
But say for instance, you wanted to edit a theme that was live already.
You don't want to edit the code that's already running,
the theme code that's already running on your website.
Maybe people are already browsing your site and making purchases.
You want to create those changes on
a separate theme and then move them over when you're confident with them.
The way we're going to do that,
is all you need to do is click in actions and then click duplicate.
Now what's going to happen is it's going to create a theme and it's
going to default to copy of, the name of the theme.
But as that's spinning up,
we can rename it.
I'm going to call this Skillshare Dev Theme.
I'm going to rename that.
In order to see what our website or what our store would look like with this theme,
we click on actions,
preview, instead of view.
Then when we look at it, the URL is going to be the same, which is confusing.
But right here we know we are previewing
our Skillshare Dev Theme because we've got this bar here.
So if you want to share this preview with somebody you can actually click,
share preview and you get this link to share with anyone for the next 14 days.
You can also hide the bar,
which I wouldn't recommend unless you have to because,
you don't want to get confused about which theme you're currently editing.
Or, you can click close preview,
and this will take you back to your actual store that's running the live theme.
Because we just duplicated the theme and we didn't make any changes,
it's going to look exactly the same.
So, moving back to Theme Kit,
what we're going to do is first install it and then we're going
to configure Theme Kit so that we're interacting with that particular theme.
Then, we are going to download our theme
to our computer and then we can start editing it.
So the things we're going to need to install it is probably a package manager.
I use Homebrew on the macOS.
You might be using Windows in which they recommend Chocolatey.
I already have the Theme Kit installed,
so I'm not going to go through installation myself.
Hopefully by going through these instructions,
you can figure out how to install Theme Kit,
but it should be pretty simple.
I just ran these commands and it worked for me.
Now I have Theme Kit installed on my computer.
If we go into commands,
we can see the configure command.
Right now if we open up our Terminal.
So it's Terminal on Mac and Command Prompt,
I believe on Windows.
But essentially whatever your command line tool is,
mine is actually iTerm not Terminal,
but it's all the same thing.
I'm going to navigate to the directory that I want my theme to go in.
I'm going to do code.
I think I have it in personal current.
Now we're in this subdirectory of
my code folder where I put my personal current projects.
What we need to do from here is set up a file called config.yml with
these details in order to tell Theme Kit
what theme we actually want to edit because right now we've just downloaded it.
It doesn't know to connect with this theme just yet.
So that's why we need to configure it.
You'll see here, we need a password,
we need a theme ID,
and we need the store URL.
So the first one, your API password.
It might be a bit hard to get your head around as a non-developer,
but essentially an API stands for an Application Programming Interface.
Especially with something like Skillshare,
which is a third party proprietary system,
we're going to need access to the API in order to change anything about our store.
Right now, we only have access to what's in this menu in order to edit our store.
We only have access to the options that Skillshare gives us through this user interface,
through this back-end dashboard.
But in order to make any changes outside of this,
it has to be done through an app.
So if I click on apps here,
there's a few different kinds of apps.
One of them is a public app.
Anyone can create an app and make it available to buy or use on the App Store.
You can see a couple of popular ones here.
These gain access to the Shopify API and can make changes to your store.
For us, we just want to change our theme.
So we need to set up a very basic app,
which just basically provides us the ability to edit our theme files.
If I go down to here and find this link hidden below those,
called manage private apps,
I can head into this interface which allows us to create our own private app.
You can think of this private app as just the interface for
us to be able to interact with our theme code on our own computer.
I'm going to call this a descriptive name,
Theme Kit connection because that's really all we're using it for.
I have to put in an emergency developer email,
even though we're just playing around.
It just won't let me submit the form otherwise,
and we need to give access to this app
to allow editing of theme templates and theme assets.
Otherwise, this app is going to be useless to us if we can't edit those theme templates.
If I click save, I will see here that it's
warning me that if I create these API credentials,
anyone who has these details can go in and read and write theme code.
That's cool. I understand.
Create the app and now we have the password.
The other details are going to be your theme ID and your store.
The store is very simple.
It's just when you click view store,
that's the name of it right there.
The theme ID can easily be found by going into the customizer.
Let's go back to themes,
got too many tabs open here.
Remember we want to edit this theme,
not the live theme right now.
So, we want to go in here and we want to click here and click customize.
In the customizer, you can see this number hidden away in the URL,
and that's the one we want to use for our theme ID.
Like I said before,
you can either create this config.yml file yourself or you can use this command
line command in order to automatically create this file for you, given the details.
It's up to you how you want to do it.
I'm going to use the command itself.
Now that I'm in the directory where I want my project to go,
I can run that command.
Just to show you, right now we have an empty directory.
That current directory is completely empty.
Once we run this command it's going to create a new file for us.
So I'll show you that in just a second.
Let's run through, theme configure,
dash dash password equals.
Then we go into our private app,
find the password, we can just click copy here.
Paste that in. The next variable is going to be store.
You can click in here,
grab that store address.
The final one is theme id.
Like I showed you in the customizer,
we can just copy it from the URL.
Let's check our code to make sure that we've got it all set up correctly.
Yeah, looks good. Now, I'll hit "Enter".
In a few seconds, it should come back with no errors.
If we look at our directory,
we'll see the config.yml file is in there.
If I open that with my code editor,
I'll be able to see that file that we talked about here is right there.
Now, if I run Theme Kit commands within this directory,
it knows which theme I want to connect with.
The next step is to download our theme.
That's really simple.
The command for that is theme download.
As that's running, I'll just show you it here.
In the documentation, you can run theme download,
and then you can specify specific files after that,
or just run theme download and it will download the entire theme.
Here you can see it's downloading now and it's at 28 percent.
Let's just skip ahead until that finishes.
That finished with no errors.
If we check the directory now,
we can see those folders that we saw.
If I go back, which one do I want to click on?
There are so many different links up here.
We actually don't need the private app password anymore,
so I can use this tab.
Go back, click on "Edit Code".
You can see that we've got the same structure.
If I move this over to the side,
you can see that we've got the assets folder in here, config,
locales, sections, all of that stuff that was in
the Skillshare Dev Theme code is now here in our directory.
One thing that Shopify Theme Kit doesn't do is put it all into a new folder.
I'm going to call this skillshare-theme,
and I will need to go into my code editor here
and change directories into that skillshare-theme.
All right, I should also mention that there's another option called theme new.
You can actually create a new theme.
Instead of putting in a theme id,
you just put in a name of what you want that theme to be,
and it will create it for you.
If you do that, it'll set you up with
a starter theme that doesn't have all the features of Debut.
I would recommend that you duplicate the theme it gives you,
and then edit that one,
rather than start a new theme from scratch.
That's my recommendation. In the later video,
we'll be covering Slate,
which is even more complex than this.
If you wanted to actually build your own theme from scratch,
definitely stick around to the end of this class.
There's going to be a bonus video on Slate.
If you want to go the full process of developing your own Shopify themes,
definitely stick around for that lesson.
For this Skillshare class,
I wanted to show you how to get up and running as soon as possible.
I don't think it's necessary to redesign everything,
to rebuild everything from scratch,
that's why we're using Debut as a starting point.
As I showed you just before,
we have our theme code here on our local computer,
and we can edit these as we please.
What I'm going to do to do that is run atom dot,
but this command completely depends on what software you're running.
I use atom, so I can just select atom dot.
Now, I have access to the whole project.
I can go in, click on different templates, and edit them.
I can go in here,
make whatever changes I want but of course,
I'm going to want to see what that does to my actual theme.
The last thing I'm going to want to do is run theme watch,
so that whenever I make changes to my local theme files,
it's going to update my actual theme,
and then I can look at it in the browser and see what changes have been made.
In order to do that, all I have to do is run a simple command, theme watch.
As you'll see in just a sec, now says,
watching for file changes to the theme,
and then it has the id there.
Let's just make a simple change to show how this works.
I don't expect you to know how to navigate around the theme
templates just yet as I will show you that in a later video.
But let's just say we want to get rid of these icons in the header.
You can go into the Header.liquid template in
sections and search for that particular part of the header.
It looks like it's right here.
I'm going to find the opening and closing div tag and just delete that all together.
I'm going to hit save on that.
If we go over to our terminal,
you will see it started to process that header,
and then it updated it on our live theme.
If you don't have this already,
you need to go into your theme that you are actually working with and click Preview.
I've got it right here,
and you can see I'm definitely previewing this SkillShare Dev theme right here.
If I refresh the page our icons should have disappeared.
There you go, there's no icons there.
Obviously, this is a change you probably wouldn't want to make.We can go
back and control Z to put it back in,
and then those changes are going to update pretty quickly.
I'm impressed at how fast Shopify does this.
It doesn't slow down development too much,
but there you go, they're back now.
Now, you can see that we're able to edit code on our local computer,
and it's updating on our theme.
This is the workflow.
We have our development theme running,
which is just a fancy word for a theme that's not the current theme because we
wouldn't want to edit the current theme if it's a live store.
We run our preview,
and then we have theme watch running,
and we just edit the code and do as we please.
We have environment set up essentially.
Now, one final note before we move on to
the next video is you'll still have access to go in here,
and edit your code from within the Shopify website.
I would recommend against this because this would create
discrepancies between the code you have on your computer,
and the code on your actual theme.
You can go in and change this,
but it's not going to update in your local files unless you run theme download.
To be clear, this process of theme watch only happens one way.
It's only when you edit your files locally,
but if you edit them on your Shopify website,
it's not going to come through to your local computer.
I would choose where you want to edit your code and stick with it.
If you're going to be editing it on your own computer,
which I highly recommend,
don't edit it here.
If you do, just know that you'll have to update it on your own computer.
Now, we have our environment setup,
and we have all the tools we need in order to
modify our Shopify website and customize our own theme.
In the next video, we're gonna take a break from the actual code.
Talk about the Shopify platform
itself because it's good to have some familiarity with that,
and then in the video after that we're going to actually go in
and explain all this code we just started looking at.
I'll see you in the next video.